---
layout: sidenav
title: About
header: Who and what SAFER is
permalink: /about/
---

# What we do

**Our Mission**

SAFER strengthens student-led movements to combat sexual and interpersonal violence in campus communities.

# Who we are

SAFER is entirely operated by a Board of Directors, working as a volunteer collective and operating by consensus. Each Board member brings their own lived experiences and professional skills to their positions and programming. SAFER is each of these activists, and is larger and has more longevity than any one activist. In addition, SAFER has one paid part-time Trainer, and occasional interns who offer additional support.

* Anya Glowa-Kollisch joined SAFER's Board in early 2013 as the Co-Development Coordinator, and is now serving as the Board Development Coordinator and Website Coordinator. Anya earned her B.A. from Trinity College in Hartford, CT in Sociology, with a minor in Progressive American Social Movements. While in Hartford she worked with a number of local non-profit groups as a community organizer. Each group was dedicated to bringing the voice of the disenfranchised to those in power, though each had different policy goals ranging from increased access to medical care for undocumented immigrants, to equalizing the racist and classist sentencing discrepancy between crack and powder cocaine. She taught language and culture at a university in Hangzhou, China for two years before returning home to be an organizer, trainer, and fundraiser for the New York Public Interest Research Group (NYPIRG). She is now a software engineer at ShopKeep, where she make products that help small businesses thrive. She loves to cook, bike, and cram as many plants around her one South-facing window as possible, and she has a serious case of wanderlust.
* Sarah Merriman joins the SAFER board after being an advocate for sexual violence prevention for the past 7 years. She began her work at Boston University, where she was part of a small group of activists who started the Sexual Assault Response and Prevention Center, a crisis and prevention center targeting interpersonal violence. She has served on multiple nonprofit boards and in the community as an organizer. She joined the SAFER board as Communications Coordinator after moving to New York City in 2015, and plans to continue her advocacy as a future lawyer. She likes puns about dogs, bluegrass music, and miniature condiments.
* Sarah Moeller joined SAFER’s Board in 2012 as Development Coordinator. She serves as Volunteers & Special Events Manager at GLSEN (the Gay, Lesbian & Straight Education Network) working to make all k-12 schools safe and affirming for LGBT youth. Sarah had the honor of working at Freedom to Marry, the campaign to win marriage nationwide for all loving and committed couples, until 2015. Previously she worked at the New York Public Interest Research Group (NYPIRG) on college campuses training students to implement local and state-wide campaigns and running field campaigns from Westchester through Suffolk County, New York. Sarah studied History and Women’s Studies at Towson University. She is also an avid reader, pop culture junkie, and craft beer enthusiast. 
* Sherine Andreine Powerful joined SAFER's Board of Directors in February 2015 as Teach-In Coordinator. She received her BA in Latin American Studies and International Studies from Yale University and holds an MPH in Population and Family Health and Global Health from Columbia University's Mailman School of Public Health. Throughout the years, she has worked for numerous domestic and global non-profit health organizations, including Caribbean Women's Health Association in Brooklyn, New York, the United Nations Population Fund in Guyana, and Population Services International Caribbean in Trinidad. Her passions and interests include gender equity, women’s empowerment, sexuality and sexual health, interrogating and reconceptualizing masculinities/femininities, adolescent health, destabilizing kyriarchy, reproductive health and justice, and Caribbean culture and affairs. In her free time, Sherine enjoys writing, pole fitness, engaging in social justice efforts, and learning languages (she's currently teaching herself French and brushing up on Spanish and Portuguese). 
* Jenny Snow is the Policy and Research Coordinator for SAFER. She is currently in the process of revamping the Campus Accountability Project. In her full-time job, Jenny works as a global health consultant at Rabin Martin. She specialized in maternal health and family planning program design, implementation, and evaluation. Jenny graduated with a BA from Skidmore College in Saratoga Springs, NY and holds an MS from the London School of Economics and Political Science. She wrote her Masters dissertation - which was awarded the Brain Able Smith Prize for best dissertation - on institutional policies concerning sexual misconduct in higher education and its relationship to reporting of sexual offenses. Despite her aptitude for clumsiness, Jenny trained as a ballerina and still enjoys dancing whenever she has a chance. 
* Anna Utsinger joined SAFER as Operations Coordinator in 2014. She earned her Bachelor of Arts in psychology from Bryn Mawr College, and after years of working in finance, she changed careers to pursue her interest in sexual health and violence. During a six-month fellowship at Sexual Health Innovations, Anna focused on developing a sexual assault reporting system for college campuses. Through this project, she became particularly interested in sexual violence at universities. She is committed to helping survivors and using research to design better sexual assault prevention and response strategies.
* Tracey E. Vitchers joined SAFER’s Board in November of 2012 as Communications Coordinator. Tracey serves as the Director of Development and Operations for Sexual Health Innovations, a national sexual health and wellbeing nonprofit. Tracey is co-founder and former Project Director of The 9/12 Generation Project, a national youth service-learning initiative that empowers youth to transform disaster-affected communities through service projects. Tracey received her B.A. in Women’s Studies and English Literature from Williams College and holds a M.A. in Comparative Women’s Studies from Utrecht University in The Netherlands. While living in The Netherlands, Tracey interned with the Women’s Global Network for Reproductive Rights (WGNRR) and indulged in her love of traveling.

# Financials

SAFER's budget covers operational expenses, sustains essential programs offered to students, such as the Teach-In trainings and Activist Mentoring Program (AMP), and supports SAFER's mission to educate on matters related to campus assault policy and policy reform.

# SAFER’s History

SAFER was started by Columbia University students in 2000 after a successful sexual assault policy reform campaign. After getting requests from around the country to advise on other policy reform campaigns, SAFER’s original student leaders incorporated into a 501c3. Since that time, SAFER has run as a volunteer collective, once with a two-year stint with a paid Executive Director. SAFER is the organization it is because of the generations of student activists who have served on the Board; yet SAFER is bigger than any one activist. 
